.TH PLWM 1 plwm\-0.4
.SH NAME
plwm \- An X11 window manager written in Prolog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plwm
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
plwm is a highly customizable X11 dynamic tiling window manager written in Prolog, inspired by dwm.
.P
For more detailed documentation, please refer to the project's README.md.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Display help, then exit.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
Display version, then exit.
.TP
.B \-l, --log=[FILE|stdout]
Path to logfile or stdout.
.TP
.B \-c, --config=FILE
Path to user configuration. If not specified, plwm will try loading the first from the following files:

\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/plwm/config.pl\fR

\fB$HOME/.config/plwm/config.pl\fR

\fB/etc/plwm/config.pl\fR
.TP
.B \-C, --check
Check configuration validity, then exit.
.SH USAGE
.SS Default keybindings
.TP
.B super + j
Focus next window in stack.
.TP
.B super + k
Focus previous window in stack.
.TP
.B super + shift + j
Swap focused window with the next.
.TP
.B super + shift + k
Swap focused window with the preceding.
.TP
.B super + Return
Move focused window to top of the stack.
.TP
.B super + q
Close focused window.
.TP
.B super + shift + space
Toggle between manual and automatic management of focused window.
.TP
.B super + f
Toggle fullscreen of focused window.
.TP
.B super + shift + q
Quit plwm.
.TP
.B super + i
Increase number of master windows by 1.
.TP
.B super + d
Decrease number of master windows by 1.
.TP
.B super + h
Remove 5% from the space of master area.
.TP
.B super + l
Add 5% to the space of master area.
.TP
.B super + shift + f
Switch to floating layout (all windows unmanaged).
.TP
.B super + shift + m
Switch to monocle layout (all maximized, one visible at a time).
.TP
.B super + shift + s
Switch to stack layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + h
Switch to hstack (horizontal stack) layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + g
Switch to grid layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + l
Switch to lmaster (left master) layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + r
Switch to rmaster (right master) layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + t
Switch to tmaster (top master) layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + b
Switch to bmaster (bottom master) layout.
.TP
.B super + shift + c
Switch to cmaster (central master) layout.
.TP
.B super + Tab
Switch between last two workspaces.
.TP
.B super + shift + Tab
Toggle the hide_empty_workspaces setting.
.TP
.B super + 1..9
Go to workspace '1'..'9'.
.TP
.B super + p
Go to previous workspace.
.TP
.B super + n
Go to next workspace.
.TP
.B super + shift + 1..9
Move focused window to workspace '1'..'9'.
.TP
.B super + shift + p
Move focused window to previous workspace.
.TP
.B super + shift + n
Move focused window to next workspace.
.TP
.B super + ,
Switch to previous monitor.
.TP
.B super + .
Switch to next monitor.
.TP
.B super + shift + ,
Move focused window to previous monitor.
.TP
.B super + shift + .
Move focused window to next monitor.
.SS Mouse commands
.TP
.B super + button1
Move window by dragging. Managed window will become floating.
.TP
.B super + button3
Resize window by dragging. Managed window will become floating.
.SH ISSUES
The following excerpt from dwm(1) applies to plwm as well:
.P
Java applications which use the XToolkit/XAWT backend may draw grey windows
only. The XToolkit/XAWT backend breaks ICCCM-compliance in recent JDK 1.5 and early
JDK 1.6 versions, because it assumes a reparenting window manager. Possible workarounds
are using JDK 1.4 (which doesn't contain the XToolkit/XAWT backend) or setting the
environment variable
.BR AWT_TOOLKIT=MToolkit
(to use the older Motif backend instead) or running
.B xprop -root -f _NET_WM_NAME 32a -set _NET_WM_NAME LG3D
or
.B wmname LG3D
(to pretend that a non-reparenting window manager is running that the
XToolkit/XAWT backend can recognize) or when using OpenJDK setting the environment variable
.BR _JAVA_AWT_WM_NONREPARENTING=1 .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Xorg (1),
.BR xprop (1),
.BR xrandr (1),
.BR dmenu (1),
.BR polybar (1)
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs by creating issues at
.BR <https://github.com/seeker04/plwm>
.SH AUTHOR
plwm was created by Barnab치s Zahor치n <zahoranb@proton.me>. For a comprehensive list of contributors, see the AUTHORS file distributed with plwm.
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License, Copyright (c) 2023-2025 Barnab치s Zahor치n, see LICENSE
